Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Obstructor. My name's Andrew Murray.
From the 7.30 until the end of the show,
callers are invited to call in
with any questions related or unrelated to this month's subject of
a kind of mixed topic really. It's a little bit of economics,
a little bit of greed,
corporate greed, and idealism.
And a couple of characters from the mid-1850s
who had some very visionary thoughts about such concepts as the biosphere
and neurosphere are going to be woven into
the discussion.
It's very much a point at this point in time
where I think as a species we are
definitely getting more and more aware
of our surroundings. The Internet has made it extremely easy
to find out a lot of information about a lot of different things.
Sometimes some of it's erroneous, other times it's revelationary.
So there's plenty of data to support
lots of arguments on both sides of the coin. If someone wants to argue something
you can get on the Internet and you can find a lot about it, sometimes
erroneous, sometimes accurate, but the idea is that we
have got more freedom than ever. We're not confined
as it were to libraries to sift and trawl through
volumes. We've got the push of a button, the chance to
find out all sorts of things that we would never have had access to and so
therefore
dissemination of knowledge has become much freer.
And unlike in times past when
academia and education was reserved for those people who had
power, influence, money, hereditary
money that would have kept them in the right position, anybody with
a desire to know more or a passion
to know more about a subject can get on the Internet
and fairly quickly come to a fairly
accurate opinion about a lot of things.
And like I said, sometimes information on the Internet is not accurate
and can be misleading. I found in the past here with
talking with Dr. Peat and looking at lots of research articles and clinical
trial data and
all sorts of controlled double-blind studies and
placebo-controlled studies and randomized studies and even studies that
are seemingly scientific can actually be misleading and erroneous.
Just look at all the data folks and look at it objectively
and you can generally find
the fault in some papers and you can more often than not
if there's money involved, just follow the money and that will also lead you
to the direction that will reveal some of the truth about it that you may not
have
read or seen. So like I said, this much subject
is going to be a medley
of things but with economics and greed
at the heart of it and as a species
we are probably more so now than ever
more relaxed if you like and
there we have less, and I don't mean this from a
physiological perspective, but less stress on us to survive because things
are available in convenience stores and we don't have to hunt them now,
we don't have to grow them, we don't have to have those skills,
we're becoming less physical as we become more cerebral perhaps
and things are there, just like Amazon will deliver it,
not that I agree with Amazon, but Amazon will deliver it to your door
you don't have to go out and get it anymore and as long as you're
earning a wage, there is some disposable income at
your disposal to do that. So that's part of this evening
is the... I just want people that are listening to the show just to really sit back and
think about what I'm going to say because
I get my head into it a lot and it still strikes me as
kind of mind-blowing when I read these things
and get into it in more depth and truly expose myself to it
it just highlights to me how little most people probably know
or understand about what I'm going to say
and I think the largest
excuse that you hear from people is
"I'm too busy to get involved" and
that's true enough, you know, most folks here are working two jobs
sometimes people working three part-time jobs just to make ends meet
and the cost of everything is skyrocketed and
our attention is being captivated
and by working so much so to make ends meet that we have
much less time now I think than in the past to get involved
in politics and to organize and steer
the government the way that we the people wanted to go
and I think the opposite happens where we're completely
blindsided by the economics of the day that we live in and the debt
that most people live in that they just don't have the time
or the want to get involved with politics
not understanding that it's the root cause of the reason that we're in the
debt and the poverty that we're in
so it's very much up to us to get involved and
getting involved with local government is probably the easiest first step that
people can do to try and make positive change in their area
and that's why I'm so pleased really to be in Humboldt
and this part of California anyway especially, there's a lot of
grassroots movements
there's a lot of independent free-thinking people and there's a lot of
people with a lot of talents sometimes they
don't get expressed as much as they could but
ultimately there's a lot of people in this area largely
that have a much more eclectic outlook
and a much more free thinking
and questioning and
you know examining kind of spirit in them which I think is very important in
order to keep
open society as open society and not
controlled by the ever-increasing government that we have
so excuse me, Dr. Pete is on the line
and I know that most people who've listened to the show certainly
understand where Dr. Pete is coming from, he's a very
open-minded free thinker who has spent most of his life
in academia researching after doing his PhD
researching subjects that are increasingly
being brought to light to be showing us a very different way to live
and a very different perspective that he has on many different subjects so I
will be
joined by Dr. Pete here in a moment I wanted to start with a
a kind of monologue that I drew up during yesterday
and today as a kind of basis for the show
but always I will get Dr. Pete's perspective on it because
it's very different from how you would normally think he would answer things
so I'd be
quite interested to hear how he's going to respond
I never really plan this with him, we never really talk about how we're going
to answer the questions or
what I'm going to say, what he's going to say, he's always very ad-lib
and extremely lucid, I think he's 81 or 82 now, maybe you'll
correct me when he comes on but he is more lucid and with it than a lot
of 20 or 30 year olds academics that I've known and know
so anyway what I wanted to say was that
from an economic perspective then let's just look at greed
coupled with runaway inflation and the resulting decline in spending power of
industrialized nations it fuels this chemically altered world
that we live in now this economic uphill struggle to
support sustainability and organically raised foods
creates a sense of loss for an otherwise enhanced and healthy environment both
psychologically and physically for us all
so just bear with me on that for a second both psychologically and
physically for us all so it's a holistic approach
to this psychologically and physically now the cost of living
in real terms from 1950 to the present time for three particular metrics I'm
going to look at which are very standard in this day and age we can relate to it
in the 1950s and we can relate to it today
one's average family income the second is an average car cost and the third is
an average median house price okay so the
in 1950 the average family income was three thousand three hundred dollars
and the average car cost fifteen hundred dollars
and the median house price was about seven thousand three hundred
so your average car cost would be half of your
average income and your average house price would be just over two times
your family income that was back in 1950 now when you hear people talking you
hear the 20 year olds or 30 year old millennials
talking about price of living the cost of things and
their parents saying well in our day it was a lot cheaper and their parents
parents their grandparents saying it was even better in our day
when America was great and I know it was it's not so great now unfortunately
folks but that's that's another subject so from the
30s to the 50s things were really doing very well for the
states and from the 50s even to 70s things were going really well
around about 1973 things started rapidly increasing in price and the
average wealth of people started rapidly declining
and it's funny when you look at the national debt
that also took a rapid spike actually much more around the 90s but
after the oil problems in the 70s and the price of gold
being fairly high and then you'll find that things started shifting
as various other products became this kind of leading market
dominators so anyway those three costs the average income for the home
sorry the average income 3,300 the average car was 1,500 and the average
median sorry median house price was 7,300
so now these important metrics allow relative comparisons across time now
when we form ratios from them so the home price income against income is
2.2 and the car cost against income was 0.45
now in 2014 the US Census Bureau showed these following values the average
family income was 51,000 the average car cost 31,000
and the median home price was now 188,000
so as a as a ratio here an index the home price
to income has suddenly gone to 3.7 which is 1.68 times what it was in 1950
so no wonder people can't get on the housing ladder and this was the same
when I was I was young in the 80s I know that then
people were just able to get onto the housing
market ladder and by the 1990s it was becoming very
obvious that it was getting very expensive to get your initial down
payment from mortgage anyway in England that previously had been quite
attainable by people 20 or 30 years ago
okay the uh the engineer is telling me there's a caller on the line
well uh let's let's just let's go with the caller as you see here but
generally I wouldn't but let's take this call let's call away from and what's your
question oh yeah greetings from San Francisco okay
what's your question caller well a couple of different things I was
gonna I heard you talking about the uh standard of living from 1973
and that corresponds to a point when Richard Nixon took us off the gold
standard and I'm wondering uh you I don't know if
you've ever uh interviewed Frances Moore Lappe uh
she wrote the book uh food first you know the myth of
scarcity and there's a section in there where
she describes that when Nixon took us off the gold standard
all of a sudden the rich of the world figured out that
uh they better invest in tangible things which would
be uh hedges against inflation and so they started uh buying land
and and specifically buying the highest quality land
uh in order to have the highest uh hedge against inflation and so for
example the starvation in Bangladesh was because the super rich of the world
started buying uh the agricultural land at the foothills
of the Himalayas and they drove millions of people off the
land so that uh you know they I think uh they say that
the erosion off the Himalayas is going to
go on for another 10,000 years and so all of that uh erosion is going
to turn into uh good topsoil with foot of the
Himalayas and so that's going to be the best
agricultural land in that region of the world
and so uh to to feed the people out there they'd
better buy that land and so the starvation in
Bangladesh was because all of those farmers were driven down to the ocean
where they were not familiar with with gaining
lifestyle or anything like that so uh the that was specifically tied to
the uh Nixon removing the U.S. dollar from
the gold standard in I think that was 1972. There's another
book that also gives some attribution to that and that's called the Making of the
President series and uh that Making of the President
series if you look for the one for 1972 that also talks about the re-election
year of Richard Nixon and it if you look in the index under gold
uh it uh it gives a very similar breakdown on
uh on the economy and as it becomes basically uh very manipulated
the other thing I was going to raise and my ears perked up when you were talking
about um you know people having deliveries
Amazon and whatnot uh if you read old books you know 100
year old books 50 year old books uh you know biographies of the 30s or
anything like that a whole lot of people especially kids
orphaned kids uh were making money being like delivery boys
uh they'd go down to the grocery store and deliver packages and groceries for
the um you know the little old ladies or
whatever they'd make uh you know decent little income for a teenage kid
was being a delivery boy and uh the only trouble with Amazon doing
that is they're doing it on a global uh in a global sense and so
the the you know the new generation of kids are no longer able to
make money on the side uh being delivery boys
and what's even worse with Amazon is is that the payment is done
electronically which means that uh every small town that gets delivery
that money is sucked out of town right away it no longer stays in
you know in uh Ukiah it no longer stays in
in uh you know Shreveport Louisiana or anywhere else it that money gets sucked
to the corporate headquarters of Amazon yeah and so the local economy is
decimated uh where a delivery boy becomes a stable
part of the local economy when Amazon takes over something as
mundane as delivery driving uh that all of a sudden
creates a colony economics yeah well i was going to get into the uh the
whole point of uh wages in real terms and the
importance of local supporting local economies because local
economies are not controlled by central government and we have much
more say in a local economy driven uh environment so uh thank
you thank you for that call i don't generally take calls before 7 30 so
i was kind of a little bit caught out but i don't normally like to turn people
down so let me just um briefly say that the number to reach
uh 7 30 on if you'd like to call is 9 2 3 3 9 1 1
for the local area and as we always have found not just in California but
from the west east coast people have called in before now and outside of
the USA from Australia to Helsinki and Finland
we've had callers but anyway there's an 800 number which is 1 800
568 3723 and we can be reached on the web too
so dr pete will be joining us fairly soon i just wanted to get through with
what i started as an introduction here um i just wanted to get at the point
that the cost of living has rapidly increased
and one other thing in 1950 at the university of Pennsylvania
annual tuition was 600 so the tuition to income ratio there was 0.18
current tuition is 40 000 a year and the tuition to income ratio now
is 0.79 it's 4.3 times and student loans
are fueling all of that so this massive increase in student loans
and debt amounts to about a trillion dollars at
present which in in and of itself may show us
as a crisis in time to come us total debt in 2001 was 28 trillion
folks in 2012 it was 68 trillion
with global debt now get this global debt is currently at 217 trillion or
over 327 percent of global gdp so three times
three times the annual complete output would not pay for the debt
um so according to the economic policy institute
entry-level wages of male and female college graduates
has remained the same since 1973 so if you had a college graduate
you had a graduate degree in 73 you'd be entering the market at the same kind of
wage as you'd be entering the market now with a 4.3 times increase in this cost
to get your education but more disconcertingly the
entry entry level wages for male and female high school graduates
from 73 to 2011 has dropped dramatically from 16 an hour
16 an hour in 73 to 12 an hour now so between that time from 73 to now
it's dropped four dollars and in real terms everything is at least
double if not more so why is this relevant then you might ask yourself or
ask your doctor to have this as a subject but it's
very relevant as a disposal income disposable income
we have as employees or self-employed producers of goods or services
is what we use to make lifestyle choices that ultimately
has a ripple effect across the world now sustainable agriculture and animal
farming practices using organic production methods
should create the best product possible without a doubt hands down no equals
it's only that this classification is now used as a trendy phrase for what was
commonly done prior to the industrialization of foods
and from the 1900s on has itself fallen in some cases victim
to the greed and corruption plaguing non-organic production
especially mass production of organic products including but not limited to
milk production which is what i'll get into with dr p
in just a minute so it has both a psychological and physical effect a
truly holistic unifying theorem which for
economics sake and greed is being reduced to the lowest
common denominator a given form by massive corporate
control of agribusiness and truly unimaginable scale production of
corporate food globally from animal factory farming to mega
arable farming none of which is organically produced and all of which
is degrading the environment so dr p are you there with us
yes hello hi thanks thanks for joining us well we had an early caller there and
i was actually wanting to get your take on what he'd said i don't know if you
heard his question and you don't have to answer it but um
i guess first things first can i just get you to outline your
academic and professional background and career for those people who perhaps have
never heard you um yeah i did my undergraduate study
at 1953 to 56 and i had a summer job where i made five hundred dollars
and with a tuition scholarship that paid for my nine months of
schooling every year wow and i looked at the prices
recently and uh it was about at least 20 times more expensive
i i couldn't afford to go to school currently
or was something that uh real really um average and low income
people could afford in the 1950s i wasn't going to ask you
this but i mean i don't mean i don't mean it rudely in any way but how you
are 81 or 81 yeah okay so now you would be a
good candidate to ask this question because you've been around for 81 years
right which is um which is pretty respectable in its own
right now you've obviously seen uh yeah and i wasn't going to ask you this
but we i'd love you to answer it because
you've seen it and been through it but uh you've seen the economic change in
america here over the last 80 years and the cost of things increase the way
they have what do you think about um what i
mentioned earlier in the show is the intro for the kind of median house price
um the average car price and then the average wage
and and what you think about um high school uh graduates
losing four dollars an hour from 1973 to net now let alone
getting any kind of increase to account for inflation and then graduate students
are still on the same hourly wage from 73 as they are to now
how do you feel about the economics and then we'll get into
i think what i wanted to question you about
a lot of popular culture has to do with keeping people from realizing that
things are getting worse and worse good point good point
um the for example you were mentioning the the average income those are
actually the median income uh the actual per capita average
income in the u.s for for one person is uh fifty eight or fifty nine thousand
dollars a year for a family of 2.54
people the average household size the average family income then is almost
150 000 here but since newspapers and
almost everyone refers to the average income
actually using the median income which uh it neglects the the vast
incomes that the upper one or two percent are making
right yeah interesting and um since the the gold standard was thrown
out uh the government has had to uh to to
keep the illusion going uh they're increasingly hiding
information they used to give out the uh figures for the money supply a few
years ago they stopped giving out much of the
information that had been routine so uh the reason the stock market
seems to be going up it is really because the government is pumping money
into it basically correct by printing the money yeah
phony money this is by having central banks are basically
able to print money without any of any any penalty basically the money's
worthless and yet we're people are still buying it people are
still buying us treasury bonds um still buying us debt and debt and the
oil uh oil is still pegged the dollar which is
why the whole petrodollar thing was coming under scrutiny it still
is and that the chinese were perhaps trying to break away from it and i know
that's in a lot of conspiracy circles at least the reason why
muhammad gaddafi basically was wanting his population to be free and he was
socializing them and the muslim population there was being very
westernized and actually not at all radicalized and how
he was going to use uh fairly large reserves of gold that he
had um to go back to the gold standard and get into
trading oil in libya uh with gold and actually
i think starting to encourage the other arab nations to do the same and this is
when he was taken out and this is the whole
it was the same with saddam hussein he was trying to get off the
yeah petrodollar and venezuela is doing the same exactly
exactly and look at them they've all been either be taken over or their
government's been supplanted or the country's been thrown into civil war
yeah okay so i guess without getting too far off the topic
um looking at looking at the cost of everything
um as human beings you know i mean i i'd like to believe i'd like to believe that
the bulk of people have got good intentions the bulk of people
are not uh just warlike uh grab as much as they can
evil despotic people who do anything to get above the next person
and that we have probably more than ever um
and a consciousness uh of the world that we live in which wants to try
and level the playing field between the poor and the rich because it's such a
huge gulf now with so few people earning so much and the
rest of the population um basically being i think their cost of
little the standard living being lowered in real terms um so looking at
um i know i read your newsletter and you mentioned in part of it
um fernandeski and um uh tayyar the shahdan
starting the concepts of the noosphere and the biosphere and so as organisms as
human beings you know we are living in this biosphere and um very
much subject to the stresses uh that we get
um you know that made known to us either through television or advertising or
obviously debt and i think debt is at this point has the biggest chain around
most people's necks that stops them looking sideways um
relating to fernandeski he was um looking at the
the planet as a metabolic system uh the biosphere was he saw the soil
and the atmosphere and the solar energy being converted to
uh to food and living substance um
his concept really saw carbon dioxide as a promoter of life
and increasing the uh the quality of living
and the i i see the uh the current uh fear of carbon dioxide as partly a
distraction from the actual pollution of deforestation
it's uh one of the major uh causes of the carbon dioxide increase
but uh it's actually doing much actually doing damage rather than uh
the um carbon dioxide increase that they're talking about
it's uh degrading the rivers uh the uh the oceans are being degraded by
the uh petroleum spills and chemical
runoff from from the uh use of uh mass
chemicals in agriculture but the um the propaganda machine for example
the website political a big it's uh it was funded by
the uh money from the biggest bank in washington dc and it represents the
ruling class ideology an article that was came out on
political a few weeks ago was written by a mathematician saying that
he had demonstrated that the rising carbon dioxide was going to
degrade the food supply by stimulating
the growth of plants and and his reasoning was that
it was based on a complete upside down version
of what happens when you shine light on plankton
it stimulates the growth of the of the plant
part the algae and uh absorbs carbon dioxide and uh
suppresses the growth of the animal part of the plankton
and he said that that was analogous to the stimulation of plant
growth by carbon dioxide but what actually happens
in in the uh the first part of his explanation the um the plant growth
stimulation by carbon by the sunlight steals carbon dioxide that would make
minerals available to the animals so it's the
carbon dioxide deficiency that he started from to argue
that a carbon dioxide excess would do the same thing
so he was completely unbiological and and backwards in his reasoning but
that went around many other media picked it up
and argued that it's really degrading the food supply to stimulate
growth with carbon dioxide but vernadsky was exactly right the carbon
dioxide is part of the soil forming
process the plants secrete acids from their roots to dissolve
minerals but the carbon dioxide carried into the soil
from the atmosphere is part of the process of
making minerals more available to plant so the
the mass media are are still promoting myths to uh
to confuse the uh the argument uh make people
worry about a fault process and get them looking in your real
pollution i think what you said captured that when
you mentioned the uh the fact that it's in the american government's machine
interest to uh steer people away from looking too
hard in the right direction and not publishing a lot of figures that
you mentioned in terms of financial fiscal figures
especially to do with government debt well we hear about the government debt a
lot but there's a lot of other features of banking and finance that we
don't hear about these days that used to be published and i think
i was thinking when that caller called in about nixon and the gold stand in 72
that nixon got taken out not long after long after being involved
in politics by that watergate scandal which is nothing compared to
what's going on now what has happened in the last few years it would make
watergate look like a complete tea party
okay so you're listening to ask your doctor on uh 91.1 fm
uh from now until the end of the show eight o'clock you're invited to call in
the questions either related or unrelated to this month's mixed topic of
economics organic production and uh holistic
ways of being really in terms of uh finding out
the information and making uh real proper life choices
so if you're in the area 93 391 1 or as an 800 number which is 1 800
568 3723 1 800 km ud rad as a doctor p i wanted to talk a little
bit more about the economic side of it i was thinking
earlier that in terms of real wages
in terms of what is the disposable part of your income
and what it is that we do as people with our disposable income
and knowing that i think most people um maybe it's just maybe it's just me
maybe i'm just coming from a single-sided perspective here but i
would have thought most people would think that certified
organic production is the better option over industrialized
farming and that certified soil practices are better for the
earth and that sustainable and local derived products
are better for the environment in general and that with our disposable
income we could put our money where our mouth is
and buy those things and support those ideals and those products and boycott
those mega corporations that we don't want to
do business with but that the actual real cost of our
disposable income has gone down so much and the government i think
largely through not releasing these kind of figures to make it obvious to us
have really kept their kept a lot of people in the dark and i
think when so many people are burdened with student loans where
they've gone through an education that's basically worthless
and they spent thousands and thousands of dollars trying to
study something that hopefully they had a passion for in the first place and
they weren't just looking for a better wage from a higher power job
but they suddenly find themselves in a marketplace with thousands of
thousands of other qualified people all earning
a vastly lower wage than they were in the 70s
and with much greater debt than they ever had before
so what do you what do you think of that?
Even the health statistics for example longevity
and disease incidence these are being falsified. In the 90s
the government declared that it had won the war on cancer
and at the time 94 I pointed out that the secretary of
health was using phony statistics and looking at the figures
I predicted that they would have to change the rules by the end of the
century because the way they were falsifying the
statistics the arrival of the baby boom
population bulge by the year 2000 the cancer rate
of this huge population bulge was going to make it impossible to
to keep up the illusion that longevity was increasing the cancer
was decreasing and so on and exactly I think it was the year
2000 the U.S. Bureau of Statistics
changed the rules and stopped giving out the raw figures
and have only age standardized figures on on health and longevity and
age-specific death rates and so on so so people are are really
being put into a dream world in which nothing is real.
We do have a caller let's get this next caller before we continue that thread
caller you're on the air where you from what's your question?
Hello. Hi you're on the air what's your question away from?
I'm from Bloxburg area. Okay what's your question?
I just get lost. Can you hear me now? Hello.
Yeah go ahead what's your question? Yes I had a medical question it
doesn't it somewhat pertains to what you're talking about but is that all
right to ask a question? Sure go ahead. Hello. Yeah go ahead can you
not hear me? Yes I had called back
years ago and I had this lump on my neck and Dr. Peet suggested eating
carrots and other things and not going to any kind of a CAT scan or
anything like that so this went on for years and it ended up being a cancer
tumor and I had it removed in Mexico and then
and then came up here and went through chemo and radiation
and my my medical question was is a year later now
I was cutting a small amount of poison oak and I thought I had poison oak on me
and all of a sudden this huge rash went over my shoulder and down around the
area where the tumor was and fortunately my girlfriend had gone
online and like you're mentioning the information online
and saw that maybe it was shingles which I had no idea about right and I
wonder if Dr. Peet could talk a little bit about
about that and if that actually was related to
the radiation treatment and chemo. Sure will lower your resistance for sure and
shingles can be reactivated chickenpox at any point in a person's life
especially if you're under stress. I wanted to ask you Cora first things
first before going further what was the cancer that they
identified? You know I'm so confused with names but
it was some sort of a skin type cancer
so it's unusual for this lump to be there and it took
it took about 12 to 15 years to develop into this
massive lump on my neck that was actually breaking out and coming out of
out of my skin. So it was a benign cancer in some in some terms and it wasn't
metastasizing it wasn't spreading it took 12 years to evolve and
yes and then finally it got so bad that that local doctors wouldn't touch it or
try to cut it cut it out so I had to go through chemo and all these different
things but it's somewhat much better now a little
swelling there okay and I was just wondering if that
had something to do with the shingles or if I should go and consult a doctor
it's going away now after about a week but it looks just like a bad case of
poison oak. Okay was it extremely sensitive to the
touch? Very sensitive but not very itchy like
poison oak would have been. Was it in a defined I'll just jump in very
quickly before I let Dr. Pete answer but I'm just kind of
interested. Well Dr. Pete probably won't agree with
this even I've always been taught that shingles is a defined dermatoma
area that can along the length of the nerve erupt into vesicular outbreak but
Dr. Pete let me let me ask you because I know you've got a probably a very
different approach to what this gentleman was talking about.
Well just in case it's actually poison oak I had the experience
in my teens of being extremely sensitive to poison oak
I was working in the woods for the Bureau of
Land Management and could hardly stand
my sleep was interrupted by extreme poison oak and the word went around
the camp that vitamin c which was new on the market
it was just fairly expensive coming out in 50 milligram tablets
the word went around that vitamin c protected against poison oak
and so at the end of the week I bought a bottle
took a few tablets 50 or 100 milligrams and suddenly the poison oak disappeared
and I never had it again
about 65 years later. Yeah I'm not I'm not really sensitive to poison oak
I've been here for about 40 years I get it just
just a little bit but it was like just a little bit and by a day or two
later my whole shoulder and down my back
turned into these huge bubbles these blackening bubbles
and I've been familiar with poison oak usually it's blotchy and if you itch it
gets worse and worse but this was like just a takeover of my skin and
is that very uh I I had that form of a bubbly and crispy
crust yeah yeah just tear all down my back and stuff
but on one on one side of my body though it's not on any other place just
all over the one side shoulder underneath my neck
down my chest a bit and and now now it's getting better
we've been I've been eating organically for years and years so
I assumed that my diet really helped and then we put like witch hazel on there to
to calm it down and some neem oil and other things so
is it is it something that you should pay a lot of attention to later on
or is will it go away and just be gone um
if it's a poison oak it's possible that you'll never
suffer from it again if it's a virus shingles yeah I think it is
a good idea to have your vitamin d level checked vitamin d is a very
powerful antiviral it regulates
all the levels of your immune system and uh your serum level should be
in the middle of the range around 50 nanograms per milliliter
okay okay well we do have two yeah you're very much I appreciate that yeah
I appreciate your call caller we've got two more callers so
let's take the next caller call away from what's your question
hello yeah you're on the air where are you from and what's your question
hi I'm from the New York City area okay and what's your question
I was wondering uh if Dr. Pete had any advice on finding
dentists to use the filling materials he recommends which from what I read was
calcium oxide for root canals and soros and then for regular fillings
and and how should I understand the importance of those materials
Dr. Pete filling material for teeth what's your
current for the root canal I think the calcium
the it's antiseptic and anesthetic and uh it's a traditional but
safer than than the gutta percha or metal fillings and I think the
the composite fillings are now high enough in strength that they're
good for even the chewing teeth
okay do you have any advice on finding dentists to use those because I
think I've emailed like dozens of people and haven't found much
results of that um I've for about 50 years had all my
industry done in Mexico because they emphasize skill dexterity
and uh care rather than speed and profit
so it could be worth it could be worth a trip to Mexico purely for dentistry I
know lots of people do it for medical issues like surgeries but
okay well we do have another caller on the air let's get this next caller
so call hello yeah where are you from and what's your question yes
I'm from Phillipsville and um more than a question I have a comment
um the fellow that was talking about uh getting poison oak and then it
turning into shingles but he talked about having cancer having
this lump that uh that that grew and became very
large um and he had to have all kinds of uh
cancer therapies to get rid of it and you made a comment saying that it
would because it hadn't metastasized you refer to it as a benign
cancer that's an oxymoron there is no such
thing as benign cancer there is a benign tumor but the but
benign means it's not cancer self-contained
and it's cancer they call it malignant if it's a lump that is been that is not
cancer they call it benign so there's no such thing as benign cancer
so what were you talking about okay well I don't need to go there with
that I don't need to defend myself what was that
I don't I don't think I need to defend myself with that
thanks you don't think you need to explain why you referred to cancer as
benign when there's no such thing well if you
look at if you look at moles moles are cancers but they are benign
uh when there's a pre-cancerous condition
which hasn't developed into cancer but if it's cancer it's malignant it's not
benign a lot of the language used medically in relation to cancer
has been to promote the business of of the oncologist 50 or 60 years ago
cancers were things that were definitely
identified as benign the language was escalated
so that something which formerly was not cancer was called
pre-cancer and then cancer the if you use the language of 1940
many cancers wouldn't exist that are now officially named as as a cancer
and treatable does they refer to cancer as malignant
and a tumor that's not cancer as benign um an article in jama about 40 years ago
uh looked at the evidence of uh the pathology methods
of analyzing the properties of the cytoplasm
nucleus ratio and uh the the matter of disorganization and
invasion and so on and in this article it was demonstrated that a healing wound
if it's biopsied will show all of the properties
that are used by the pathologist to identify cancer so
that what is defined as cancer has become more inclusive and if you
happen to have an injury that gets biopsied
it'll be called cancer because it has the properties of
of rapid growth uh invasive appearance and so on well then
is that benign or malignant this this article was pointing out that
you can't tell that the only way you can tell if
something is going to be malignant is wait and see
well this is telling you not to go to the doctor when his lump was small
and he took your advice and it grew and grew and grew and became
cancer and he had to have all kinds of of difficult therapy they couldn't even
remove it he had to have chemotherapy to shrink it before they could even remove
it why did you tell him not to go to a doctor
when he first had it i don't remember uh saying that i don't think i ever
tell people not to go to doctors i don't think he did either i
think i misunderstood them because i thought he said he had spoken with you
uh when he first got it and that you had told him not to go to a doctor
i never tell people not to go to doctors but i tell them to
think and question what the doctor tells them to do
well all right well thanks thanks for the call it sounds like a
more of a battle of words here okay we've got two more calls uh
so let's say next call a call away from what's your question i'm in white thorn
i have a comment and a question my first comment
for the prior caller is the best dentist i have ever seen is james mattson and
fort bragg okay james mattson and fort bragg
dr matt okay all right laser super high tech very professional
very soothing great great dentist best one i've ever seen
okay my other question though is about sclerosing mesenteritis
are there any herbs that might help you know dissolve the internal scar tissue
dissolving internal scar tissue
yeah a little difficult in terms of any tissue that's truly become fibrotic
and has been organized that way to do that
it's not that easy um i don't know dr p if you
if you're looking at scar tissue i know there are some things that they
have said in the past are good for dissolving scars but i think
once tissue's gotten as organized as a proper scar
with those fibrin and connectins i think they're fairly
insoluble well what's i i may be something like progesterone might be
useful in that case but yeah i've had experience
with some uh fibrotic uh lumps and scars
that um for example vitamin e i had a vaccination scar from the time i was
18 until i was in my 40s it was bulgy and red
and i put vitamin e on it and in a week it had essentially disappeared
but a very hard lump sometimes takes six months or so of
of anti-inflammatory vitamin e progesterone
total nutrition improvement can accelerate the
the vitamin e orally vitamin e topically dr p
oh in the case of a scar in your skin yes oh no it's inside
sclerosing this enteritis yeah so that would have to be taken internally but do
you think dr p that vitamin e taken internally would
really have any topical effect on that or do you think it
no no but the um a lot of the sclerosing problems are
calcification uh abnormal calcification and uh
hence cellu pioneered the study of how to cause and regress
calcified tissue various types of sclerosis
and uh that's a good place to start but vitamin d by
vitamin d and the high calcium intake to lower your
parathyroid hormone is part of the process
of reversing calcified tissue vitamin k is another
anti-soft tissue calcification factor what was the name of the person you said
it studied this can han cell yay s e l y e yes s e l y
yeah yeah thank you okay you're welcome all right there's another caller so let's
get this next caller caller where you from and what's your
question hello hi you're on the air where you're
from what's your question uh kansas city from kansas city kansas
city i was just wondering i've been listening to a lot of your old podcasts
and um and on the thyroid issue and i was i didn't hear this particular
question and then i was um diagnosed with grave
disease which is supposed to be hyperthyroid
but i've never been hyperthyroid and um and i was wondering and the only way
they diagnosed me excuse me was because i had the the eyes
and the swelling in the feet and the legs so you had
exophthalmos because they've you know i've known uh thyroid hormone for years
and i still have issues and i was wondering
is there would you treat that differently than
someone that say had hashy motives because i've got all that i've still got
elevated antibodies and all of that yeah so dr p
um uh graves disease with uh exophthalmos i'm
pretty sure it's kind of common presenting complaint and she said
swollen feet um yeah i had the swelling on the tops of
the feet in the front of the shins i still have
some of the swelling but you see it was one the main present
presenting complaint she said
um pitting edema i think they call it um yeah i i think a more thorough
metabolic study would show something other than the
antithyroid antibodies
you would want to check out the steroid hormones progesterone
uh cortisol vitamin d and the actual level of your
uh thyroid hormones the t3 and t4 and reverse t3 lots of people
did check all of those i have a new doctor and we checked all of those
and the only thing that i was low on was testosterone
and it wasn't that low it's just a little low so and i've been on vitamin
d supplements for five years and it's in the normal i mean
it's it's usually between 60 and 80 in that range
but um i don't seem to be able to find anything that
i can get a handle on have you changed uh
your uh temperature or pulse rate in response to the thyroid
no my my temperature is usually between 96
6 and 97 when i wake up in the morning but then it goes up during the day like
it might go up to 99 by the end of the day
and um that that is uh really not not consistent with
graves disease and most of the people i've only seen
one person that i think really had hyperthyroid
graves disease but i've talked to many people who had the
diagnosis and some of their doctors said well
actually they're both hypothyroid and hyperthyroid
but they were yeah that's what they tell me they tell me i have hashimotos and
graves now because i have all of the thyroid
antibodies very high and i'm on i'm on a four and a
third grain of of natural thyroid and and all of my
numbers come back right but you know i just my temperature is
all whacked out i still have some of the swelling
i just don't know what to do next
the um have have you uh changed the thyroid dose while watching your
pulse rate and temperature and requirement for
calories
you mean you mean like taking something that's a fast-acting thyroid like p3
um because the t4 doesn't act very fast i mean
the t3 um acts within an hour and a half so if no one's ever given me a t3
supplement like you mean like a cytomel or something
yeah so so what what would how would you do that then you would take
some cytomel and then you would watch for what do you divide your
natural thyroid supplement and take it in
fractions during the day no because they told me that the t4 part
of it you had to take it four hours apart from
any other medication and apart from food and everything so i take
it first thing in the morning did they explain why why you should do
that the the body said something about the
minerals binding the t4 or something i don't i don't quite
understand it since it takes a couple of days for
anything to pass through the intestine normally
sometimes longer there's plenty of time for the t4 to absorb
and your body doesn't want it to absorb all in an hour or two when it
does that it induces
enzymes in your liver which destroy it if the body if the liver perceives this
huge unphysiological surge of t4 coming in
in just an hour it's going to eliminate it 12 hours later
so that you'll actually be hypothyroid in 12 hours after you take it
i'm going to have to stop you both there i'm afraid we're getting two minutes to
the top of the hour and i've got to wrap up with some
information to let people know more about you dr p and also
just generally close out the rest of the show so thanks for those people that
have joined us tonight thank you dr p for your time really appreciate it
okay thanks for all the callers for anybody else who
has listened to the show wants to know more about dr p he's got a
website www.rayPeat.com he's not selling anything but he's got
some very good scholarly articles that are fully
referenced on lots of subjects that you've probably not even
heard about and some of the reasons why what you think is good for you is not
good for you and the science behind it so like you
said at the beginning of the show there before
i even talked to ask you about it the government want to keep a lot of this
stuff quiet and they want to steer you in a general direction
you're more manageable that way once you can be burdened with debt and you pay
your taxes you don't have too much time to think about too much so you're quite
controllable anyway for those people that have
listened to the show thanks so much for joining us
we can be reached 1-888-WBMERB
for further questions monday through friday nine to five
and for those of you who've listened tonight keep your ears and eyes open you
know things are not quite where you think they are sometimes and
if you're looking in a radical new direction chances are you may
well find some fruit okay so till next month next october we're
in the fall happy fall to you all